All right, guys, we talked about the colonel listening and the connection part.
Now we talk about now we have a connection.
Now we actually read and send data on that connection.
So the receive and send buffers becomes very, very interesting here.
Very important.
Let's talk about the send and receive buffers.
The client send data on a connection.
And once you have a connection you get a file descriptor.
And that file descriptor of course if you uh if you like a JavaScript or node or any other language
PHP, you get it as an object often, right?
Because often these languages are object oriented, right?
Okay.
This is a connection dot send.
Right.
So so you still deal with the file descriptor but it's hidden from you.
But essentially you send data on that connection.
Boom!
I want to send a thousand bytes.
What is that?
Thousand?
But even that hidden from you, right?
You can't just send data willy nilly.
You often you have, like, uh, a fetch command, like fetch is a is a top abstraction or Axios.
Right.
You say this is your URL.
And.
Port.
I will go and fetch that data.
That's all we have.
But there's so much happening there.
The fetch command uses internal libraries to establish a connection.
If one is not established, and a bad implementation would be to establish a connection every time and
close it.
So you want to establish a connection or use one that is already established.
Now that I have a connection object, uh, now you deal with.
Sheesh.
Building the HTTP request headers.
And, uh, we talked about all that in my back end course.
Right.
Uh, build the headers, uh, get request, build the, you know, the body, whatever you want to send.
And then you translate this.
If it's Https, you encrypt it.
And all of this happening in the user space, right.
Then you send the encrypted bytes, you send the data on connection.
When I say send data on connection, that's what I meant.
After all this junk that you did on the application layer, now you have encrypted bytes.
Uh, which to the connection is just bytes.
You want to send a thousand bytes that happened to represent encrypted HTTP request.
It could be happening on one single, uh, packet or it could be on tens, uh, packets.
Who knows?
Right.
You just say send 1000 bytes, read or write.
You can use the right Posix commands to do the same thing here.
Right.
The kernel puts that data into the receive queue.
So we send data.
We receive it in a receive queue.
How will it matches.
Because you send it to a connection.
Well you technically send you have the resend the the destination IP, the destination port receive
uh, source IP source port.
You took those four pairs.
The kernel looks those up in the table and says, all right, oh, that's this process, this file descriptor.
And these are the pointers in memory for the receive queue and the send queue.
And then you write all the data there in that receive queue.
And then of course, the kernel also does so much work here to build the actual, you know, packets,
stuff like that.
The, the.
You know.
The metadata about all this stuff.
The stuff we Google actually optimized a few weeks ago.
Right.
By moving data structure around, they made things way faster because of how memory is allocated.
We talked about that data alignment.
Right.
Uh, I brought up that example.
These data structures were actually moved to to fix all of that stuff, to make the performance better
by actually aligning it such that when I read, I read the most important things.
So they are in the 64 byte cache line.
So the kernel acts.
Uh, it may delay, of course, if you have delayed acknowledgement.
And basically what happens here is that the kernel TCP IP is a very complicated piece of software because
if I receive the data.
Part of the TCP protocol is to acknowledge the data they just received.
So say I received a thousand bytes.
I received, I acknowledge this.
This is the last bite I acknowledge.
And by acknowledging that anything before it is automatically acknowledged.
Right.
And the Colonel can't delay that if you want, because delaying acknowledgement is a good thing, because
I don't need to send that ack and overwhelm the network.
When I can wait a little bit more, maybe the client will send a little bit, slightly some more thing,
and then you delay and then you acknowledge one, one, one, all of this stuff with once as opposed
to multiple small acknowledgements.
And of course it updates the window sizes and and all of this metadata that comes with TCP IP.
Now how much I can support this is all of this stuff I talk about in my networking course.
Right.
The app calls read to copy data, and that's the most important things for you guys to understand.
Yeah, the data lives in the receive buffer.
They are not in the application.
When you call read there is a copy that happens from, uh, from the receive buffer to the userspace
process heap.
In this particular case, because I allocate memory and say, all right, copy my stuff here.
So there's a copy.
Copy is expensive.
We talked about that.
Right.
So you're copying data around which requires it to be copied to the cache the CPU and then written because
you cannot just copy memory to memory without DMA at least.
Right.
This, uh.
It reminds me of something interesting, you know.
A story time, story time, story time, story time.
You know, one of the.
Some of you are JavaScript developers.
Some of you might know, but node is the, you know, the classic framework for JavaScript.
And bun is this new hype thing.
And one of the things that bun claims to be faster than node is they use something called zero copy.
What does that.
And that is.
This exact thing when I let's take this, I want to read from disk and I want to write this to the socket.
I want to send some file.
Someone is reading an index.html.
I want to write it directly to the disk.
I'm sorry, I want to read index.html and write it to the user.
Someone asked for index.html.
Simple operation, right?
But this involves a read to the file.
You know.
Itself from disk and then that copies to where?
Where quiz.
Where does it go?
I'll give you three seconds to guess.
Yeah, actually.
Say it out loud.
That's right.
Page cached file system.
Page cache.
Good job.
You deserve a chocolate bar today.
Go get yourself one.
Yes.
When you call, when you read it goes to the page cache because we're using file systems and.
Where does the page cache kernel?
All right.
What do I do next?
That's not how node does it.
Okay.
I read it to the past.
What?
What else?
No, actually, I need to read it all in memory.
So you read it as an application?
As a back end application.
Node.js.
I read all of this stuff in memory.
Now it's in my memory and node's memory.
What do I need to do then?
Oh never mind.
Actually, I need to now take this memory that intact.
I didn't change anything to it.
Write it back to this file descriptor.
Where is that?
That's a connection.
Yeah.
I want to write to this connection.
But so this is now going back to the kernel, another data structure in the kernel might I say right.
But.
But we're just.
Why did we have to move all this stuff?
We move the data from the kernel to the user space back to the kernel so that we can send it out.
So there is this system call that allows you to do exactly that with quote unquote zero copy.
That is send file.
Hey, this file I want you to send it to this socket.
You give it the file descriptor source which is the file, and you give it the destination file descriptor,
which is a connection.
And remember everything in Linux is just files.
So you give a source file destination file and say hey, send this file and it will just boot and we'll
be we will be smart enough.
So all right.
Uh.
The file happened to be already in memory.
If it's not, I'll do the read.
Of course.
But then I need.
I don't need to copy it to user space.
I'll just literally just take it from there and then write it directly.
Uh to either to receive buffer.
So you need to do a copy sometimes, but it's a kernel copy so it's faster.
You're not switching kernel mode, right.
And or sometimes the colonel says, you know what, I'll do some games.
I'll play some games and and write it directly to the neck.
From there, I'll point the receive buffer such that the address will point to wherever the page cache
is, and I'll read it.
And instead of reading it, copying it to the receive buffer, I'll just, uh, read it from the page
cache and it will do all sorts of tricks because it now has context.
So that's what bun kind of claims.
So that's when the first releases.
Of course.
Uh, of course, you guys, you know that this is way complex than it seems, right?
Because, uh, often you almost never just send something willy nilly directly.
You have to change it.
You have to morph it and to change it and morph it, you have to put in userspace, uh, like simple
thing, SSL encrypted.
This file by default is not encrypted, but you have to encrypt it with your symmetric key, which lives
where in the in the user space.
So you have to bring it to user space to encrypt it to send it back.
So so there is this optimization are very rarely done because there is just so much stuff we do with
encryption.
Someone say so.
So actually there is this SSL send file.
Yes, there is ways to do it right.
There is an SSL synth file which I rarely supported.
I read about it a little bit, but it's so hard to do and you have to of course support it.
But yeah.
But even then you still had to have add headers and stuff like that.
The headers can be done right because I can, I can.
Assuming I have SSL, I can send my encrypted headers.
From the application because I know them.
Boom.
Write it and then I can do a send file, which is okay, take it as is and send SSL.
Use this symmetric key and send it.
You can do those stuff.
And and Bun claims that it does this for fast performance which of course is going to add performance.
Right.
And I believe node if I'm not mistaken actually started supporting that recently.
But again it's not.
If once you want to read and do something like even a simple thing like compress.
Out of the window.
You cannot do anything because the kernel doesn't know what compression is.
At HTTP compression is an application level thing.
So that's why you start challenging people because you understand how things work, right.
And it's easy.
Once you understand these fundamentals you can easily challenge people.
So it's all right.
Oh guys how do you do compression HTTP compression then if it's a zero copy.
It was a.
Oh.
It is probably something that people didn't think of, right?
Uh, you might say, oh, I want to disable in compression.
Yeah.
If you disable compression, then you can do direct, uh, zero copy, but you have bloats and.
It's very interesting.
This whole thing is interesting, and I want you just to have a critical eye when you look at this and
question everything.
Question even me.
Whatever I'm saying back to.
The.
Course.
So that was a nice story.
All right.
Let's take an example.
Receive over this net.
So receive buffer.
The data comes.
IRA I think IRA is put in.
In Japanese.
I'm learning Japanese guys, so I might be.
I might use the wrong verb.
Eru.
Yeah, Eru is to put in and.
What is it?
Hiero.
Never mind.
I don't know Japanese.
So yeah.
So the data comes in and we know the connection.
We know the destination IP and we know the destination port.
The kernel identifies it.
All right.
And, uh.
You might say, what if I have multiple connections?
Well, we use four pairs and this must be unique.
The source port and the source IP will give us you beautiful uniqueness.
So even if the same client establish a thousand connection, you're going to get a thousand different
source ports.
Even if the IP, the source IP is the same, you're going to get a thousand different source ports.
So you're safe, right?
So the source port changes, the source IP doesn't change, the destination IP doesn't change, the
destination port doesn't change.
The only thing that changes is the source port.
If if the same client sends a creates a thousand connection.
Right.
You put the data here nice.
And then you acknowledge.
Right.
And you can choose that as a kernel.
You know what?
I'm going to wait a little bit more for more packets to arrive.
Sweet.
And then the process calls, read which copies.
And that's what I talked about.
There's a copy from this kernel to the process.
So copy involves going to the processor, the process because the processor goes to read from this memory
address copies to the cache lines.
And then from cache line does a write to the new memory location.
That's how a copy is.
Memory copy is is not cheap.
It involves going to buses to different memory addresses.
So so many copies.
And so imagine copying arrays, right?
Large arrays.
All of this stuff goes through the CPU, right?
Again, unless you have like direct memory access from one memory to memory, just copy the stuff,
which is also expensive just to sit up as we talked about.
Right.
All right.
Once you read it, it goes back to the process ID and that's a copy.
And we talked about zero copy in general.
Like how do you do take this.
Uh it depends.
Like what do you do.
Right.
If you want to send data from one kernel structure to another kernel structure, you can use zero copy,
right?
By actually telling the kernel, hey, just you have these two things, do them right.
But it's very hard to do.
Send buffers.
Right.
The client want to send something to the to the server.
To the client.
Sorry, the server wants to send back.
Or even the client wants to send the send.
Buffers exist on both.
Right.
So you send something goes to the buffer and it sits here.
And that's what the critical part here when you send something it doesn't go to the network.
Exactly like the page cache.
What did I tell you when we start the course?
What did I tell you?
Didn't I tell you?
Everything is the same.
Wherever you go is the same patterns.
They're everywhere.
My friends.
Everywhere you go, you write to a page cache and the page cache will flush it to disk.
You write to the.
Receive buffer.
Send buffer and the send buffer will just not immediately flush it to the network.
No no no no no no no that's a bad idea.
We will wait.
We will write write write write accumulate something from the user more.
Then we're going to flush it.
And this is where something called Nigel Algorithm kicks in and goes like hey Nigel algorithm actually
extend that period.
How long to do we wait before we flush to the network to actually send those packets to the network
interface card?
And based on that algorithm, I'm not going to go through it, but essentially waiting.
It.
Which caused that way.
It caused performance issues and curl.
That's why curl that library.
Uh.
That.
You know, Carl, everybody knows Carl.
The one that allows you to fetch web pages.
Very popular.
They just straight up disabled Nigel algorithm, say, because the guy, Daniel Steinberg was debugging
this thing and was say, like, what is going on?
He was like, just debugging some, you know, slowdown and certain kernel.
And there was like a 500 milliseconds to 300 to 500 milliseconds.
So he debugged it down to establishing the TLS.
Right.
Because TLS, which we're not going to go through that we already went through the back end course comes
after, uh, TCP, which essentially establishes the client hello.
And establishes encryption.
And this this tends to be a huge payload, large payload, especially with certificates and stuff like
that.
Right.
So you send something.
And what happened was that the Nigel algorithm was you were sending something, but there was something
that is still in the on the way.
Right?
We didn't receive acknowledgement because of delayed acknowledgement, for example, on the server.
So Nigel said, hey, if there is no acknowledgement, I'm not going to send anything.
I'm just going to wait some more data from the client, from the actual process to be sent before I
actually send it, because it's pointless.
There are ongoing stuff already.
The unacknowledged why should I send?
That's how Nigel algorithm works.
So that will cause a delay because you are not sending the data and you're causing unnecessary delays.
So what do they say?
And he discovered that when we established the TLS, we were delaying.
It was like, why is the TLS taking 500 milliseconds?
The what's happening?
So you disabled Nigel algorithms, right?
Don't wait.
Even if you have unacknowledged data, don't wait.
Send it, send it, send it.
If I send you something, send it right away.
Even if it's a single byte.
Don't wait.
Nigel says.
Hey, you're sending one bite.
I'm gonna wait.
Just one bite.
I'm not gonna send one bite as a packet because there is a huge overhead.
All these segments.
Right?
We talked about that in my networking course.
Like, there is like a massive 20 bytes.
40 actually bytes header with the IP packet and the TCP segment.
Just to send a stinking bite.
No, I'm gonna wait.
Maybe the user will send me more data.
And it's up to you.
Do you want efficiency in your network?
Well that is filled up segment or do you want performance curve shows performance like I don't care
about efficiency.
It's okay.
Send three bytes across the network even if my TLS is tiny.
Right.
I think that was the problem.
The TLS was tiny.
So the, uh, the client hello was tiny, so they were sending it, but it was stuck in the sent buffer.
It will never send it until it actually waits for a certain amount of time before actually sending it.
So we're causing the performance.
You disabled natural algorithm.
Send this tiny TLS hello.
And immediately got sent.
And of course the server received it and we got a immediately.
50 milliseconds were done.
So yeah, eventually we send that data and we get back an ack and.
That's it.
Problems with reading and sending.
You have clients that does not read fast enough.
If the backend doesn't read fast enough, you fill up your read queue.
All right.
You'll receive a cube.
If you receive a queue gets filled.
The client's slow down.
How does this.
This is all determined by something called a flow control.
Yeah.
Flow control will tell the client, hey, my receive buffer is actually full.
Slow down your rights.
It was like, okay, my window is actually this size and there is a congestion window.
There is a flow control window.
Flow control is how much the receiver the back end can support, and the flow control is how much the
network the boxes in the middle can support.
And this is people still take PhD on this stuff like what is the best conjunction control algorithm.
Very very interesting topics for certain people, you know.
So, yeah, the client will shrink their window based on how full the receive buffer is, and we'll
just shrink and shrink.
The window is how much you can send essentially.
Right.
So in fact, it will start with like, you know, ten maximum segment size and then will shrink shrink
shrink shrink shrink shrink will slow down.
And you don't want to slow down.
So technically you want to read fast enough.
So that you receive Q is always full so they can the client doesn't slow down.
It's a beautiful you know.
Symphony, this whole thing.
And that is the end of this lecture, you guys.
I'm going to see you in the next one.
I'm going to talk about patterns.
It's going to be beautiful.